README.md, before:

![](images/wollokCI.png)

# Wollok Continuous Integration Project

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/uqbar-project/wollok-ci.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/uqbar-project/wollok-ci)

The main purpose of this project is to allow Wollok developers to have a simple CI workflow.

## Structure

The root folder provides all Wollok executable files in bash:

- **wast.sh**: AST Analyzer
- **wchecker.sh**: Wollok validations checker
- **winterpreter.sh**: Wollok Interpreter, it will run tests & programs
- **wrepl.sh**: interactive console is also available
- and server scripts

There is also a `jars` folder, where we put all necessary Java jar files in order to run in a standalone computer without installing the whole Wollok development environment.

## Travis scripts

You have these scripts you can use for Travis files

- **runTests.sh**
- **runPrograms.sh**

Both scripts first **build all .wlk files**, so even if your tests are passing or your program is working fine, ensure you have no errors in `Problems` tab (in your Wollok IDE).

![](./images/wollokProblems.png)

Otherwise, your build will fail.

It then will run either all the tests files or all the programs. Any error prevents a succesful build to happen.

### Example 1: running tests in a Wollok Project

If your Wollok project has several test files, your `.travis.yml` should look like this:

```yml
language: generic

sudo: required

script:
    - git clone https://github.com/uqbar-project/wollok-ci
    - mv wollok-ci/* ./
    - chmod 777 ./runTests.sh
    - ./runTests.sh
```

### Example 2: running a program inside a Wollok Project

If your Wollok project has no test file but a program, then your `.travis.yml` should look like this:

```yml
language: generic

sudo: required

script:
    - git clone https://github.com/uqbar-project/wollok-ci
    - mv wollok-ci/* ./
    - chmod 777 ./runTests.sh
    - ./runPrograms.sh
```

## Testing Wollok CI

Having https://github.com/wollok/introPepita as a witness case, we have tested all these possibilities:

- [x] `pepita.wlk` not compiling => build failed
- [x] missing import `pepita.*` in test file => build failed
- [x] validation errors in `pepita.wlk` like `if (2 == 3) return false else true` => build failed
- [x] tests failing with assertion errors => build failed
- [x] test failing with runtime errors (like `division by zero` or `null` parameters in operations like `+`) => build failed
- [ ] passing tests => build passed
- [ ] warning issues in `pepita.wlk` (but no errors) => build passed

## Future steps

- [ ]: Migrate to Wollok Server Architecture in Amazon?

Commit message:

constructor in an object definition error

README.md, after:

![](images/wollokCI.png)

# Wollok Continuous Integration Project

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/uqbar-project/wollok-ci.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/uqbar-project/wollok-ci)

The main purpose of this project is to allow Wollok developers to have a simple CI workflow.

## Structure

The root folder provides all Wollok executable files in bash:

- **wast.sh**: AST Analyzer
- **wchecker.sh**: Wollok validations checker
- **winterpreter.sh**: Wollok Interpreter, it will run tests & programs
- **wrepl.sh**: interactive console is also available
- and server scripts

There is also a `jars` folder, where we put all necessary Java jar files in order to run in a standalone computer without installing the whole Wollok development environment.

## Travis scripts

You have these scripts you can use for Travis files

- **runTests.sh**
- **runPrograms.sh**

Both scripts first **build all .wlk files**, so even if your tests are passing or your program is working fine, ensure you have no errors in `Problems` tab (in your Wollok IDE).

![](./images/wollokProblems.png)

Otherwise, your build will fail.

It then will run either all the tests files or all the programs. Any error prevents a succesful build to happen.

### Example 1: running tests in a Wollok Project

If your Wollok project has several test files, your `.travis.yml` should look like this:

```yml
language: generic

sudo: required

script:
    - git clone https://github.com/uqbar-project/wollok-ci
    - mv wollok-ci/* ./
    - chmod 777 ./runTests.sh
    - ./runTests.sh
```

### Example 2: running a program inside a Wollok Project

If your Wollok project has no test file but a program, then your `.travis.yml` should look like this:

```yml
language: generic

sudo: required

script:
    - git clone https://github.com/uqbar-project/wollok-ci
    - mv wollok-ci/* ./
    - chmod 777 ./runTests.sh
    - ./runPrograms.sh
```

## Testing Wollok CI

Having https://github.com/wollok/introPepita as a witness case, we have tested all these possibilities:

- [x] `pepita.wlk` not compiling => build failed
- [x] missing import `pepita.*` in test file => build failed
- [x] validator errors in `pepita.wlk` like having a constructor in an object definition => build failed
- [x] tests failing with assertion errors => build failed
- [x] test failing with runtime errors (like `division by zero` or `null` parameters in operations like `+`) => build failed
- [ ] passing tests => build passed
- [ ] warning issues in `pepita.wlk` (but no errors) => build passed

## Future steps

- [ ]: Migrate to Wollok Server Architecture in Amazon?
